
					                   Bachelor of Technology Programmes  
					                      Choice Based Credit System 


  --->To ensure uniform system of education, duration of undergraduate and post graduate programmes, eligibility criteria for and mode of admission, credit load requirement and its distribution between course and system of examination and other related aspects, following academic rules and regulations are recommended. 


   1) System of Education 

       Choice based Credit System with Semester pattern of education shall be followed across The Charotar University of Science and Technology (CHARUSAT) both at Undergraduate and Masterss levels. Each semester will be at least 90 working day duration.  Every enrolled student will be required to take a course works in the chosen subject of specialization and also complete a project/dissertation if any. Apart from the Programme Core courses, provision for choosing University level electives and Programme/Institutional level electives are available under the Choice based credit system.  

   2) Duration of Programme 

       i) Undergraduate programme(B.Tech)Minimum 8 semesters (4 academic years) Maximum 16 semesters (8 academic years)
 
   3) Eligibility for admissions As enacted by Govt. of Gujarat from time to time. 
 
   4) Mode of  admissions As enacted by Govt. of Gujarat from time to time. 

   5) Programme structure and Credits As per annexure - 1 attached 

   6) Attendance 
   
     All activities prescribed under these regulations and listed by the course faculty members in their respective course outlines are compulsory for all students pursuing the courses. No exemption will be given to any student from attendance except on account of serious personal illness or accident or family calamity that may genuinely prevent a student from attending a particular session or a few sessions. However, such unexpected absence from classes and other activities will be required to be condoned by the Dean/Principal.Student attendance in a course should be 80%. 

   7) Course Evaluation 
    
     The performance of every student in each course will be evaluated as follows: 
     Internal evaluation by the course faculty member(s) based on continuous assessment, for 30% of the marks for the course; and Final examination by the University through written paper or practical test or oral test or presentation by the student or a combination of any two or more of these, for 70% of the marks for the course.  
 
     Internal Evaluation 

     A student shall be evaluated through Continuous Evaluation and Semester End Examination. 
     The weight of continuous assessment and End-semester examination shall be varying from UG to PG and from Faculty to Faculty as approved by Academic Council. 
     During the semester, a student shall be going through continuous assessment. The continuous assessment will be conducted by the respective Department / Institute. At the end of semester a student shall be evaluated through semester end examination comprising of theory and/or practical, viva-voce, term work components as decided by A cademic Council.  
   
     The performance of candidate in continuous assessment and in end-semester examination together shall be considered for deciding the final grade in a course. 

     University Examination 
 
     The final examination by the University for 70% of the evaluation for the course will be through written paper and 100% for practical test or oral test or presentation by the student or a combination of any two or more of these. 
     In order to earn the credit in a course a student has to obtain grade other than FF. 
     Performance at Internal & University Examination 
     Minimum performance with respect to internal marks as well as university examination will be an important consideration for passing a course. Details of minimum percentage of marks to be obtained in the  examinations (internal/external) are as follows 
     A student failing to score 35% of the final examination will get a FF grade.  
     If a candidate obtains minimum required marks per subject but fails to obtain minimum required overall marks, he/she has to repeat the university examination till the minimum required overall marks are obtained. 
     Minimum marks in University  Exam per subject 
     Minimum marks Overall per subject 30-35% 
  
8) Grade Point System 
  
     Performance of the student in all the components shall be graded using relative grading system. 
     Performance of the student in all the components shall be graded using relative grading system. 
     At the end of a semester, a histogram shall be prepared for results of each course. A committee mentioned here under shall finalize the histogram based on which results will be  prepared. 
     Result Preparation committee 
     A committee chaired by Provost and comprising of Dean of Faculty, One Dean other than the faculty and one teacher having expertise of relative grading shall deliberate upon different scenarios of results based on histograms of all the courses. Thereafter, the committee shall finalize the results. 
     The histogram shall be prepared for each course. After the finalization by the committee, the results shall be declared within 3 weeks duration. 
     Post Result Mechanism. 
     
     The Dean shall discuss the result of each course with the convener and the teacher who has taught the course along with the statistical distribution evident from histogram so as to bring out any anomalies, skewness, left-out topics etc. Its only after this discussion is over the results shall be declared.  