				                CHARUSAT FACILTIES				

               				    Statement of Expectations 

Asmembers of the university's community,all students,groups of students,and student organization sare expected to exemplify CHARUSAT's community principles and values, to engage in socially responsible behavior,and to model exceptional conduct,character,and citizenship on campus and beyond.

 
                                            Parent or Family Contact 

Contact with a student's parents or legal guardians may occuror be required in certain circumstances in connection with a matter involving alleged student misconductor any other academic or personal matter. 
 

       	 					   Hostel Life 
Students are required to follow the rules of the respective residential facility. A decent decorum should be maintained while living in the hostels or any other residential facilities. 

 
				                 Wi-Fi & Internet 

CHARUSAT campus is Wi-Fi enabled; moreover, all computers are equipped with internet facility. Students are required to use this facility with maximum integrity. Any misuse of it or misconduct through it will lead to punishment or penalty. 
 

                 		           Infrastructure and Instruments 

CHARUSAT campus is beautifully designed. All classrooms, laboratoriesand other areas of the campus are equipped with various a menities and academic instruments.Students are required to use amenities and academic instruments with maximum integrity. Any misuse of it or misconduct through it will lead to punishment or penalty. 


   				                  Social Media 

Social Medias such as Facebook, Twitter, What’s App etc. are part of our daily life but it is recommended that all students maintain dignity in the content of posting/ commenting about others and the university. 
		            

                                              Communication Devices 

Use of cell-phones and other communication devices in the classroom, laboratories, libraries, and at other academic area are prohibited. 
		              

                                                    Dressing 

Students are required to maintain dignified appearance. You may dress up with formal or semi•Formalcloths and accessories. 


                                                     Prayer 

CHARUSAT respects all religion.There is a tradition ofprayer recitation atthe campus premises through Public Address System at 8:55 am. All are requested to maintain the dignity of the prayer time. 
 